What Are 3D Shapes?
What makes something 3D? Is it the way it looks? An easy way to think of a 3D shape is any shape or object that takes up air space. Think about your own body for a minute. Your body is a 3D shape. It is not a uniform shape, like a building block, but it is a 3D shape, nonetheless. What makes your body a 3D shape? Does it take up air space? Of course it does; you can't be at the same spot as anyone else. You can't take up the same space as a chair or a dog or anything else. Only you can occupy your space. This is what makes a shape 3D.

A test you can do to check whether something is 3D or not is to try to place something in the exact spot where that shape is. Look around you for something you can grab. Take your pen, for instance. Place it on your desk. Now, try and take another pen and place it in the same exact spot as your first pen. Can you do it? No, you can't. The only way you can do it is if you moved your first pen to make room for the second.

Even a flat piece of paper is a 3D shape in the world. Lay two pieces down, one on top of the other, and look at them. Are both sheets of paper taking up the same space? It may seem so at first, but look carefully. One is actually on top of the other because both take up space.





2D Shapes Definition
'2D' stands for 2-dimensional. A 2D shape is any shape that has two dimensions. Think about what it means to have two dimensions for a moment. If we had only one dimension to work with, we could only move backwards or forwards in a line. A line is one-dimensional. If we had two dimensions, on the other hand, we could go forwards and backwards in a line and turn in any direction to start a new line. We are essentially able to travel anywhere on a flat surface. In mathematics, a flat surface is called a plane. A plane is one example of a two-dimensional shape. A plane is essentially the largest sheet of paper you will ever find. In fact, it is a sheet of paper so large that it never ends. One way of thinking about 2D shapes is anything that lays flat on a piece of paper.

2d shapes
Take out a piece of paper, and place it on your desk. Notice how flat it is. Now take any nearby object, place it on your piece of paper, and trace around it. Look at your shape. What does it look like? Congratulations, you have just drawn a 2D shape! This is another way you can think of 2D shapes: 2D shapes are any shape you can trace from an object on a flat piece of paper.

Take a cube and trace it on a piece of paper and you will get a square shape. Take a soda can and trace it on a piece of paper. Depending on how you lay the soda can down, you will get either a circle or a rectangle. Try it out and see for yourself.